This trainer began as a port of Amanj's Zahak Trainer (https://github.com/amanjpro/zahak-trainer) for the sake of training similar nets for Mantissa and to learn more about how NN training worked.  Since then it has deviated somewhat as my own plans for training have changed.  Mantissa's net is now using a different topology.

Zahak's Trainer trains a net with 769 inputs (each piece, square, color combination and then side to move) which then is fed into set of fully-connected layers ultimately funneling down to 1 output neuron.  While the zahak-trainer can be configured to handle arbitrarily many layers, Zahak (and many other engines) tend to use only one hidden layer, since most of the knowledge/returns comes from that.

Mantissa's first net was trained similarly.  However, I found an interesting outcome that didn't really affect playing strength but which was aesthetically undesirable for me.  The nets trained in the zahak-trainer way would often produce a system where there was a large negative bias on the output node (e.g. -900 centipawn), and white would "earn" points.  This would result in very asymmetric nets where the scores could practically range from -9 to +50.  By the time a score gets that far out the game is all but decided, but it was odd to see.

By changing the way the random weights and biases were initialized, I was able to train nets in tissa-trainer that, while not perfectly symmetric, had output biases close to zero and could give similar scores for white and black.  This is how the Mantissa 3.0.0 net was trained.

For the 3.3.0 net, I tried to address this further.  This version of tissa-trainer instead trains a net where instead of a hidden layer fully connected with the inputs, there is instead two sets of neurons in the first layer which see the board from the perspective of each side, with mirrored weights.  This means that if you completely flipped a position (flipping the color of all pieces, mirroring board, and changing side to move), the evaluation of the score (from side-to-move's perspective) shouldn't change.

Tissa-trainer is written specifically with my use in mind.  It lacks pretty much any QoL at the moment.  If people express interest, I might polish it up and make it user friendly to be able to train different nets or help other people.  Feel free to take a look around, I hope it's educational, but it's admittedly tricky to use.  Thanks for any interest.  Feel free to reach out to me with any questions at my email jtheardw@gmail.com or on the talkchess forums (username jtwright).
